---
title: Take the Leap and Pursue Your Passion
author: Jeremy
type: post
date: 2009-06-06T02:18:55+00:00
url: /625/
btc_comment_counts:
  - 's:6:"a:0:{}";'
btc_comment_summary:
  - 's:6:"a:0:{}";'
btc_post:
  - 's:226:"a:6:{s:2:"ID";s:3:"245";s:13:"post_date_gmt";s:19:"2009-06-06 02:18:55";s:23:"initial_import_date_gmt";s:19:"2009-06-06 02:25:10";s:20:"last_import_date_gmt";s:19:"0000-00-00 00:00:00";s:4:"hits";s:1:"0";s:6:"misses";s:1:"0";}";'
categories:
  - Entrepreneurship

---
We all have a certain passion in life some of us pursue it full time other pursue it when time allows. The only failure is not taking the time to pursue it at all.

I was having a peaceful moment earlier this afternoon, watching a deer graze in the field and I started thinking about the decisions I have made in the past ten years and how I got where I am.

It was interesting to me to remember how many of those decisions have been rather split second. I more or less had a vision of what I wanted to be doing, believed I could do it and went for it. Sure I put thought into what making those decisions would mean and how they would effect my life, but in doing so I realized that we tend to over analyze. We start out having faith in our ability to accomplish something and then go about breaking it down until we talk ourselves out of it and instead pursue the safer, less passionate route.

In doing this we end up hurting ourselves in the long run. We hinder our ability to grow and ultimately end up becoming more fulfilled in our lives, careers, hobbies, whatever the case may be.

Not ever choice you make our opportunity you decide to pursue is going to result in the pot of gold that you envisioned, but if you fail to pursue the chance you can never learn from the hardships, the failures and the mistakes. The things that truly teach you what you are capable of and will ultimately help you to succeed in the long run.

Making the decision to join the military before an inevitable war and choosing to go with a highly deployable unit that often times finds itself in the middle of some of the most dangerous situations could have ended badly. The experience is something that I will never forget and would never trade for anything.

Creating a product in one of the tougher markets out there, dumping a lot of hard earned money into to it and watching it fail miserably can certainly set you back a bit. It is also something that I do not regret, the amount that I learned about business during this time is not something you can pay to learn in school.

Jumping out on my own instead of choosing the safer more secure path of full time employment when I had a child on the way was thought to be stupid and possibly even irrisponsible. I had faith in my ability to succeed and asked that others give me a chance to prove that. I have not taken a look backward.

Sometimes it is extremely hard to talk yourself up instead of down and away. Coming up with the idea is only half the battle, convincing yourself to take action is when it counts. Don&#8217;t be afraid to take the leap and pursue your passion, even if it means hardship you will come out ahead in the long run if only you learn from the experience.